&gt;&gt; Hello.
Okay.
Just a quick note, if you can't find seats
here there is an overspill room for this one.
Its tunist, I believe, is the overspill here
on campus.
So if you, if you need somewhere else to watch
this from that's the place.
When it comes to superheroes, I've always
been more of a Spiderman than a Superman fan
personally, and I'll come back to that reference
in a minute.
Today it's my great pleasure to introduce
Merlin Mann who I've read and followed for
many years.
He's the creator of 43 Folders website.
Also slightly less well known but very good
is his Five's website.
That's--that's a really good one if you haven't
checked that out, and his got a number of
other projects including MacBreak.
MacBreak weekly, regular on the Twit, pod
casting network and so forth.
So, I mentioned Spiderman.
Merlin's a lot like Spiderman to me.
Spiderman is the scan of really cool superhero
with all these powers.
But occasionally he swings into buildings,
so has to wash his own underwear.
And to me that makes that character much more
accessible.
And when it comes to getting things done,
I feel the same way about Merlin's advice.
He swings into the occasional building or,
you know, occasionally deals with the day-to-day
issues of washing your own underwear.
And to me, that advice just makes a lot more
sense.
So, with that said, Merlin Mann.
&gt;&gt; MANN: Thank you very much.
I can deal with this guy here.
Can you guys--can you hear me okay?
&gt;&gt; Oh yeah I'll take that.
&gt;&gt; MANN: A thing is if I work at Google, I've
had other people that could wash my underwear
for me, so three, four.
You guys get laundry, I don't know if you
know.
Maybe it's just some of the people that have
been here for awhile.
&gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] so.
&gt;&gt; MANN: Yeah?
They don't pick it up for you?
Yeah.
Dry cleaning them, don't do that.
Yeah.
I've--I was bragging my friend about this
the other day, "Oh God, you won't replace
it.
You're so infantilized, they do laundry for
you."
He goes, "Yeah, but I pay for it."
I went, "Yeah.
Okay, well."
Still, it's pretty good.
Thanks a lot for having me today.
I'm going to talk about email, and something
that I call Inbox Zero based on a series of
articles that I wrote for 43 Folders awhile
back, a year or two ago.
And has a lot of to do with my own struggles
over the years to deal with high volumes of
email.
1993, I got my first email account.
It's a Pine account on the Calahase free net.
This is a wonderful thing, you get a free
internet account, you got a shell account.
Anybody in town can get it.
Look at the Simpsons on go for holes till
two in the morning.
It was amazing.
And it blew my mind.
I mean, I used Microsoft mail before, I had
never had internet email and it was astonishing.
I new probably, maybe a dozen people that
have email addresses, most of people who were
in like grad school.
I had a friend who was going to Oxford, I
could email this guy, I could write him a
letter.
It would get there immediately and then he'd
write me back.
I mean, I know a lot of you are younger than
me, but this was astonishing.
This was mind blowing.
I mean the sense of like connecting with people.
People you hadn't seen forever, you found
out that he got an email address, and I'll
send your emailing.
Its email, you've got to have the email.
It was fantastic, it was unbelievable.
And every little email I wrote was like a
special little letter.
It was like I was getting a little hug from
somebody.
You know, I was returning it with a little
hug.
A dozen people in a little network.
International network of hugs, and it felt
so awesome.
And really, it kind of stayed that way for
like, probably, almost two years.
It liked remained astonishing to me that I
had email.
It's still kind of freaks me out a little.
It didn't always stay that way.
Eventually, more than a dozen people found
out what my email address was.
I suspect people, more than that know yours
as well.
And somewhere along the way, email went from
being kind of this funny hip thing that you
did with your geek friends, into being the
lingua franca for how you dealt with your
entire life.
And it became kind of the one source for all
incoming and outgoing information.
And it started to get a lot harder.
And all of a sudden, the messages become a
little bit a less like careful letters and
became more like, I don't know, like an avalanche
falling on your head every morning.
And it became a lot less fun, and it became
a lot less about a network of hugs and that
made me sad.
In 1993, I didn't need a system for doing
email.
The system was, I logged in and I tried to
remember the commands for doing things in
Pine and I got my email, and that was all
there was to it.
To have a system for doing email with a dozen
people in a network seems kind of crazy and
anal, why would I need that.
And yet today, I feel like the only way we're
going to succeed at a job with the most important
soft skills you can have is figuring out how
to deal with the high volume of email.
And the only way that you're going to do that
is to do build up with some kind of a system
in place that's going to be simple and repeatable
and has allow--going to allow you to have
an actual life outside of email.
It actually can happen, believe it or not.
I think this does have to be a very simple
system, it has to be a relatively complete
framework that regardless of who the message
is from or what kind of content type it is,
you know how to deal with everything that
comes into your world.
You're reducing the number of possible options
for what something could be and turning it
into a relatively small number of verbs for
what you can actually do with any of this
stuff.
I think one of the most important things an
email system can do is to build walls where
they don't yet exist.
A lot of people right now are for practical
purposes living in their inbox.
They leave their email open all day long,
it's auto checking throughout the day.
Little blips come up about every minute, and
email becomes the nexus for everything they
do with work.
They use it as a to-do list manager; they
use it as a calendar.
I'm not talking about outlook, I'm talking
about people who like literally scroll through
their inbox to decide what meetings they have
to go through the day.
To quote Walter Sobchak, "You're entering
a world of pain".
That is--that is not a way to live, that's
not a system.
That's crazy.
Thus edges are so important.
Because you guys are knowledge workers, which
is a fancy way of saying "you add value to
information".
And if you're a knowledge worker, the two
most precious natural resources you've got
are your time and your attention.
They're both finite and they're both irreplaceable.
There's no way you're ever going to add a
couple hours to the day, and as much as you
emax people, probably you think it's possible;
you can't actually do 17 things at one time.
Multitasking, in my experience, tends to be
something of a myth.
Where you decide to put your time and attention
says a lot about who you are.
It says a lot about you as a human being.
You have some idea in your head of stuff that's
high priority to you, right?
All the stuff that really matters.
If I sat down and like ask you, you know,
what's really important to you?
You go,"Oh my family and my church group and
I'm a deacon."
But then I go and I look in your email box,
and your news feeds, and your web browser,
if I win and I got all CSI on that, like,
what with the last two weeks of your electronic
life say about how it maps to the stuff that
you claim is really important?
Maybe really well, in which case you should
leave.
But if you're like me and you struggle with
that, you need to have these walls and you
need to find ways to honor where your time
and attention go.
And there's probably no better way to have
your time burgled than by not having a healthy
relationship with your email and not having
a sense of--of where stuff belongs.
As much as your time and your attention are
finite, the demands on your time and attention
are infinite.
There's no end to how much people can ask
of your time and your attention.
You're ultimately the one who's going to have
to make decisions about how your attention
and your time map to the things that you actually
do the actions in your life.
There's a really a good writer and developer
named Joel Spolsky, you probably know him
from Joel on Software.
And he uses an example that I like a lot that
I'm going to steal.
He says that whether you're developing software
or what have you, it's good to think about
the amount of available time and effort as
representing a box, and that's a box that
got a certain number of cubic inches available
in it and you can put whatever you want into
it.
But every kind of task that you want to add
to that box is basically like a little block.
Big task are big blocks and little task, a
little blocks.
But no matter how you cut them up, they're
still only so many cubic inches in the box.
The fact of the matter is that it's all about
opportunity cost.
Every time you put a crap block in your box,
it means a really cool block doesn't get to
go in there.
And as much as we sometimes feel like we're
beholden to bosses and teams, we're ultimately
the traffic cop for this kind of stuff.
So one idea behind--this is, you know, obviously
kind of a more general point, but I think
it really keys to the idea of Inbox Zero because
it's a way of saying that ultimately you want
not have to worry about taking stupid blocks
out of the box.
It's better to make sure they never get in
there in the first place, and that requires
a very kind of proactive approach to managing
the action in your life.
And that's really what this is all about.
If you're managing actions, you're ensuring
that your time and attention are always mapping
to the stuff that you claim is important.
And as heretical as this might sound, it also
means you could spend less time doing email
and discover that there are things outside
the world of email that are also your job
and your life.
It's true, I promise.
Inbox Zero has a lot of prior arc.
In particular, I'm taking a lot of these ideas
from David Allen's book "Getting Things Done".
A lot of other stuff--show hands, "Getting
Things Done" people, anybody read it--read
it, you know?
In particular, a lot of the ideas around processing,
if you are familiar with TTD, it's going to
have a lot to do with this.
David Allen has a phrase that he uses in Getting
Things Done that I like a lot.
He calls Getting Things Done "advanced common
sense."
And I think it's exactly what a lot of this
stuff is.
The stuff that I'm going to talk to you about
today could not be anymore obvious.
The trouble is we don't always do the obvious
things and so putting them into some kind
of framework that you can get your head around,
can be a great way to keep things on the rails.
So the idea behind Inbox Zero.
First of all, we admit to ourselves that email
is really nothing more than a medium.
It is a center--Steven might say it's a tube.
It gets things from one place to another.
And I think that's really critically important.
There's no need for you to live in email.
There's no need for you to be there.
That's not where the action is, right?
Emails?
Swell, it's great for getting stuff around,
but you don't want to be focusing exclusively
on the email itself to the exclusion of the
other things that are in the email that need
to be deliberated into other places.
Like appointments, and tasks, and reference
materials.
I really believe there's a single place for
anything.
That's going to differ for each one of us.
We're all going to have our own idea about
what that right place is, but once you know
where stuff goes, it's get a lot easier to
figure out where to put it.
And having an idea in your head about where
stuff needs to land and where it could potentially
live forever, that's your job to figure out.
The single practice that I think could really
change your life starting today is to process
to zero.
Process to zero every time you check your
email.
You never check your email without processing
which I know, sounds, again, heretical.
But a lot of people get really good at checking
email and they don't always get so good at
doing anything about it.
So we're going to show you how to do processing.
But you're never going to have an over full
inbox if you can get out of the habit of allowing
that stuff to kind of stack up in the first
place, and that begins with processing every
time you check.
And finally, it's an action based system kids.
This is all about converting stuff into action,
even if that action means deleting the email.
It's about deciding in the moment what you
need to do about it and then moving on.
Processing is probably the most important
piece of that in terms of how this is going
to be affecting you from--from day-to-day.
I think one of the--one of the problems is
that a lot people, especially kind of the
Blackberry kids, think that checking is enough.
"I'm going to check my email.
Got to go.
Check my email."
Well, you know, you checked something and
theoretically you're doing that because of
what?
Because there's a fire in there that might
be coming up?
Okay, well you checked it, there's no fire
but there's also five other emails that you
haven't done anything with.
Well, you know, checking brings with it a
certain amount of responsibility.
If you're checking on your friend's cat while
they're out of town, it's incumbent upon you
to tell them if anything goes wrong with the
cat.
You check it on Monday and the cat's fine.
Check out on Tuesday, the cat's fine.
Check it on Wednesday, it's spontaneously
combusted.
You don't just come back on Thursday and hope
that it got better, you've checked on the
cat and there's a problem and now you deal
with it.
Don't let your Blackberry turn into exploding
cats.
That's--that's not a good thing.
But, you know, at the same time the good news
is, it means less than responding, right?
There's more than checking, less than responding.
Responding is one possible outcome of processing,
but it's not the only one.
That's 1993 talking.
Every time you think every email you get needs
a response.
I know less of you probably are in that place,
but somewhere, search your mind and see if
there's maybe some little corner that still
thinks, "Oh man, I got to respond to 200 emails,"
and you don't.
You got to process 200 emails, which is so
different.
At the end of the day, processing means that
you're going to look at every single piece
of email in your inbox and decide what it
means to you, where does this go?
Or to make our point, what actions do I have
to take as a result of this email?
Think of yourself as like a minor, you're
an information minor, an action minor.
There's little veins of gold and probably
fool's gold in some cases in your email.
And it's your job to figure out what that
is, and that's kind of what the processing
is all about.
I have this idea that a--if you work in a
Deli and you're behind the counter, people
keep bringing you orders, orders, orders.
A lot of people I know would think "Hmm, these
orders are really interesting.
I should check to see if they have any orders.
Hmm, yeah, five more orders.
Okay.
Get any orders?
Oh, yeah come orders."
What are hush and hush organize these?
Should I--alphabetical or maybe numerical?
No, you're making sandwiches, you're not stacking.
The whole point of this is to go make a damn
sandwich, you know?
If you decide around all day try to figure
out, are there any new orders?
That's not the point.
Focus on putting out the sandwiches and don't
worry so much about the orders.
Once you've mined the gold out of your email,
it's a dead skeletal husk and you can throw
it away.
When you're processing, the idea is to liberate
all of that stuff and be done and throwing
the husk away as quickly as possible.
Don't--don't cling in this, like sad, like
Buddhist way to your--to your email in this
like weird CYA, you know, anxiety fast.
You just, you know, move it on, get it out
of the way.
As quickly as you can, get it off your plate.
And the way we're going to do this is through
a limited number of options from which you
can do with a given email.
This is my system.
This is what works for me, okay?
So you're end number here might be different.
But from the way I do this, there's five potential
things that can happen to any email.
Five and only five verbs that tell me everything
I can do with an email.
Why is this a good thing?
Well, like right now, just think to yourself,
imagine your inbox, is there any email in
your inbox right now that you've read but
you haven't done anything about?
Maybe a couple--couple of you.
Chances are, because you don't--you haven't
really thought about what the possible verbs
are.
And it's weirdly comforting once you know
what those verbs are for yourself, in your
own little system, it could be--it could be
really comforting to be able to just blow
through that stuff.
Oh gosh, you should delete so much of your
email.
It's just unbelievable how much email you
can delete or archive.
You know, kind of roughly--I'm going to use
my laser pointer.
These are kind of roughly, in the order of
desirability just for the way I think about
this stuff, but if I can delete an email,
boy, I'm for damn sure going to delete it.
I'm going to get it out of there.
The default state of your inbox should probably
not be keep sitting here until I start weeping.
That's not a good approach.
If you find yourself with the little scroll,
we all go and up and down while tears run
down your face like something's--something's
not working.
And so, can you delete it?
Okay, delete it.
That's great.
Is this something where this would really
be better for somebody else to do?
You can delegate it to somebody else.
That could be delegated horizontally or vertically,
it just means somebody else is going to work
on it.
And if it's a new email that you can respond
to very quickly, just blow out a one, two,
three line response in one or two minutes,
keep moving, keep the ball in motion.
It might be something that you want to defer.
This can be a tricky one but if it's something
where you need to respond to this but it's
going to take a little bit of outside work,
it's still primarily an email based task,
you might want to kind of put that aside to
do for later on.
And if finally, its something you can do,
go do it now and be done with it, right?
Advanced common sense.
Yes, I will give you that.
But if you can find out what your little verbs
are and then make sure that you're always
doing them, you're never going to have that
stuff stacking up in your inbox again because
you know there's only so many outcomes and
it's just a matter of you, as quickly as possible,
determining which one of those outcomes it
is and then dispensing as quickly as you can.
Let's talk about each in just a little bit
more detail.
I include archiving and deleting and I'll
explain why in a minute.
But obviously, you know, if it's--if it's,
you know, I don't, urban myths from your aunt,
if it's Viagra adds or whatnot, you know to
junk that.
But, I mean, there's a lot of stuff that you
get that you can also junk.
Once you get really good and fast at this
stuff, it's going to blow your mind how much
of your email you throw away once you kind
of lose the fear.
But anything that doesn't have any place in
your life and never will, get rid off.
That's said, if there is stuff that you will
need in the future, archive it.
And what is archiving?
Archiving, for me, is a single folder.
It's a single folder called archive.
It does not 24 folders, friend.
It's not--it's not coming up with the most
crazy Byzantine taxonomically complete system
that you could think of.
Let's be honest.
For those of you who do have the 24 folder
Byzantine system, when is the last time you
used it to actually find anything?
Maybe you do.
Maybe you use it all the time.
User or win a price.
But for most of you, I've seen you.
You sit there and you go, "Wow!
Is this--is this going to be definitely 2007
July blog relate--is a blog related or CMS?
Really it's more like my ruby ultimate golf
group.
Really it should go here, but I'll tag it
and duplicate it."
Dude it's the modern age.
You got the freaking Gmail search for it.
Flag it if you need to flag it and put it
into a folder, that's great.
But ask yourself--and I will give--I will
grant you, some of you need this structure
because you're crazy.
But if--if--but be honest with yourself, what
is the payoff?
Are you getting for the amount of time that
you--I'm on a Mac, I grab an email and I start
dragging it.
I have to start thinking now, where does this
go?
For an email that I'm going to archive, I
have to think about where it goes.
I'm not a librarian.
I have a blog.
Like it all goes into archive.
Ask yourself, what is the minimally Byzantine
system that you can tolerate that will still
allow you to find stuff later on?
Does not need to be taxonomically satisfying,
it needs to be easy to find.
There's a really big difference.
But delete whatever you can and just try to
keep it simple.
Delegating is kind of a no-brainer.
As--as you're forwarding it, usually to somebody,
and you're saying, "Hey, I think--can you
give--can you give this person this information,"
or what have you.
The only addition I would add to that, there's
another action associated with that, especially
if you do GTD which is the idea of having
a follow-up.
So, if you want to be proactive about this
stuff, I've used that twice so I need to put
a dollar in the jar now.
If you want to be proactive about this, you
want to drill down that net and open the kimono.
Seriously, [INDISTINCT], if you want to--if
you're going to delegate to somebody, it's
a good idea to give yourself a little tickler
and say, "Okay, in two weeks give yourself
a reminder to make sure it happen."
Everybody's got a different way to handle
this.
I have a--in my--in my--I use omni focus,
is a program I use, and I have a little context
in there called "Waiting On" where I could
watch stuff.
[INDISTINCT] I put things on the calendar.
But I think it's a good idea that whenever
you can start getting in this mind set of
converting things into actions.
If not, always just someone else's job, and
then just kind of get out of the way as quick
as you can.
Quick responses.
I'm guessing this is probably a huge amount
of what you get.
I know you kids are on a lot of email list,
you get a lot of stuff to the day you're participating
in, learn to--to blow out a really fast, like
one or two line reply, is such a ninja move.
There's a website that started, in the last
week or two, called five sentences.
I don't know if you guys have seen this.
There's five sentences, four sentences, three
sentences and two sentences.
And there--there are Spanish sites, so they
end in dot ES, five sentences.
And it's kind of funny.
And it's--it's a way of saying to people,
"I have undertaken it.
That from now on, no email I'll ever write
will be longer than five sentences."
And so you put in your [INDISTINCT] or your
emails and people know that you're not being
terse, you're being efficient--maybe you're
being terse.
Maybe you're from New England, you're just
nationally taciturn.
But get it out as quick as you can.
And--and, you know, I think if you can--I
think there's this, I don't know, I want to
come up with some kind of fancy computer term
for this, but there's got to be some phrase
for like the disproportion it weigh that--how
many times have you gotten something, usually
from over your pay grade, or somebody sends
you a one line email that represents some
month of work for you?
There's a terribly disproportion of thing
going on in email.
And the same thing happens when somebody writes
you a 25 paragraph email.
Do you feel like you've got to write them
back a 25?
I struggle with this.
I get a lot of email from really nice people
and I--there's no way I could ever write that
much.
So you've got to find your comfort zone with
this stuff, but being able to respond quickly
and just kind of keep the ball in motion.
Keeping the ball in motion is very important.
If you don't have enough information to respond
to this right now, ask a question.
Just keep things moving and get it out of
your inbox.
This one's thorny, but it's important and
this is the idea of deferring.
If you're doing a quick check-in on your email
and you're processing, there maybe something's
that you don't want to deal with right now
but you will want to deal with later.
If there's stuff where you're going to need
extra information before you can respond,
you might want to put that in that.
Personally, I put this into a "to respond"
folder and then throughout the day I go down
and try to window that down, so that I'm kind
of, hopefully trying to empty that by the
end of everyday, don't always do it.
But the idea is that you're inbox really kind
of should be for stuff you haven't read yet.
And then that, again, that's common sense.
But there's a lot of you, probably, a few
of you who have email and then it's read you're
not doing anything with.
Well, you know, if you need--figure out what
you need to get rid of it, and then do that
and get it out of the way.
And then finally, if there's something that
you can do, this is so important.
Do it or capture a place holder for that action
of doing it.
So what does that mean?
If there is something I could do right now,
if I can just go walk a folder down two cubes,
go do it, you're done with it, email is finished.
But if it's something you can't do now, or
shouldn't do now or won't do now, what if
it's a meeting in the future?
Put it on your calendar.
You would be amazed how many people decide
what they're going to do today by looking
at their inbox.
Their inbox means this hasn't blown up yet.
It means these are things I still bad--feel
bad enough about that I haven't put them in
my trashcan.
As much as possible, liberate activity out
of your inbox.
I just cannot put this strongly enough.
Keep a separate list for tasks, it doesn't
matter whether--what you're using.
You guys don't have a task tab yet, you need
that.
But you could use, you know, whatever.
You could use "remember the milk", you could
use a Google docs, a diced text files to remember
a lot of this stuff.
But don't live out of your inbox and don't
use it as a to-do list because that will make
you crazy.
I just--I feel so strongly about this.
There's one and only one thing you can do
with each one of this, but the thing you don't
do is just let it sit around without a reason
because that's when the procrastination starts.
And as soon as you see, I don't know if you
guys have ever dealt with clutter in your
life, but it happens with clutter in their
home, too.
Where like one area you put down a jacket
and then pretty soon there's a pair of pants
on it, and then there's hook number four and
there's some quarter wood and like, pretty
soon that area is completely gone.
The same as true here.
If you keep your inbox tidy, you're going
to respect it more.
And in a certain way that really says that
you're respecting your time and attention
and saying that "I, as much as I load email,
it's important enough to me that I take it
a little bit more seriously."
So one and only one.
So like I say, last time I say this, this
may not be your trip.
Like you're going to have to figure out what
your--I [INDISTINCT] are actually pretty sound.
I think 80% of the DNA for most email systems
is probably somewhere in here.
But you need to figure this out for yourself.
You have your own work flow.
You got your own life.
You got your own weird peculiar habits you
picked in college, honor that with my blessing.
I think one of the most frustrating things
about the life hacking movement one of the
things I find most relaxing is the explicit
idea that acquiring a system is all you need
to take care of a problem.
To me this is really not so much more sophisticated
than thinking that you're going to be more
organized because you got a PDA.
Ultimately whatever system I think I happen
to think the Inbox Zero system is very, I
think it's pretty intuitive and easy to follow
but it's meaningless if you don't put it in
place a whole heart of life hacking comes
down to one idea in my mind.
I see idea there's a really smart part of
your brain there's really dumb part of your
brain and if you always let the smart part
of your brain think that it's really smart
and don't do anything to help the dumb part
you're going to, you're going to be in a world
of pain.
To make the synaptic leap between the dumb
part and the smart part is what a life hack
is all about and that's what really what this
is.
I haven't shown you anything here that you
don't already know how to deal but if you
actually do it you're going to see extraordinary
differences.
The way that you have to make this happen
is you've got, you've got to make it a habit
you've got to have it be something that you
do repeatedly otherwise there's really not
much worth to it at all and I think one of
those healthy habits in the long run is that
processing ironically processing on a regular
as in repeating basis use it time to get out
of email and go have a life somewhere else.
So just to kind of put some of these tips
into perspective and to give you some ways
to help this stick a couple quick tips.
I think it's really important to do email
less and by that I mean don't leave email
open, do not leave auto check on I know this
sounds crazy consider turning off your email
application sometimes and working on other
stuff.
If you're in customer service you can't do
that, if you're in a Korean Missile sylow
you can't do that.
If you're the one who, who feeds and grooms
the page rank you probably can't do that but
if you're like a normal person who has a job
there's a pretty good chance that you could
shut your email off sometimes and let it accumulate
for awhile while you go at work.
Have you ever had this happen you go on vacation
and you come back and you get this 700 emails
or whatever and it's I'm always dog smack
by how incredibly stupid most of my email
is but it seems really important if I got
a reminder after a minute you know.
If you leave those--if you leave I think mail
that out if you leave it in it's default state
will remind you of new mail every minute.
That's 2400 interruptions a week so it's worth
figuring out how many of those interruptions
you can really tolerate given how important
the news that we're having Sally's birthday
at TGI Friday's is to you at a given time.
I really feel like you wanted to schedule
email dashes my suggestion to you is that
you try to check your email once per hour
and then an hour go and check your email for
ten straight minutes, process it to zero respond
what you can, close it up and get back to
work.
Maybe that will work for you, maybe if you
do this every 20 minutes trying to keep yourself
on a some kind of schedule we're--you're looking
periodically enough that you're not going
to lose your mind or have your boss thinks
you're you know smoking weed under the desk
but as much as you can try to shut off and
get away from that.
One thing that you'll immediately notice is
that a lot of stuffs seems less like a fire
than it did when it was coming in all the
time.
And while we're at it get off for pay sit,
get off for news feeds.
If you haven't new that to check a little
bit less often go pass through a pass twice
a day you'll enjoy it more and you'll get
a lot more done.
It is totally okay to cheat.
The first cheat that is awesome it still turning
if there's any stuff that's coming in I'm
sure you guys are already doing above the
list and stuff that you're on but if there's
stuff that's low level high noise not important
I don't need to know this now stuff.
Filter it in such a way that goes into a folder
as being red keep yourself for a minor to
go check it ones a day or ones a week or however
often you need to check it but there's no
need to be notified of, of noisy stuff and
there's an only you can filter that stuff
out which what, what can't you filter you
can't filter stuff that requires your brain
to be engage on, on going basis.
Obviously it's like your primary project your
not going to be able to filter that be careful
that you don't over filter which I know gmail
will let you do.
It's kind of like if you train spam assassin
and it starts like throwing out your mom's
emails you know.
You got to be careful about how much of this
you try to automate because you still you
need your brain engage with a lot of it.
The other one I don't know I think you kids
work on a gmail but I love templates.
I would love to see template functionality
in gmail.
I currently use an application for mail got
out called mail template.
It makes it really easy to create custom templates
that you can just respond super fast to email.
If you start thinking in terms of templates
you guys are already thinking of templates
in terms of the way you could things right
and you reuse libraries and stuff like that
if you discover that 80% of your email comes
from the same ten responses consider automating
that with the template especially for stuff
outside routine it really speed things up.
&gt;&gt; Can you make a sample of that?
&gt;&gt; MANN: Yeah I have a mail template or somebody
God bless and ask me incredibly obvious question
about something that's on the site that was
on the first response first return in Google.
So I'll go and I'll do the search on Google
and it goes to my clip board and, and then
mail template our respond to their email and
I've got a little international some of the
phrase to your email but it's got a little
spot where it drops in whether it was on my
clipboard.
So it says, "Dear Jimmy, hey thanks a lot
for stopping by.
I think you found what you're looking for
here."
And it drops in the clipboard.
It could be FAQs, could be whatever.
But it's sort of like, you guys think about
how you, I'll talk out of my butt for a minute,
but think of how you refractor code and how
can you reuse bits of stuff, same thing here.
If you discover you're answering the same
thing over and over, try to automate it and
keep it simple.
And--and--and the other thing is, you know,
I know you're like you're whatever, like freaking
Walt Whitman and everything.
Every word you write is a dream and you would
never think of--of boiler plate, but at least
use it as a jumping off point like consider
at least having a little core of a one paragraph
response if it's something you write a lot,
saves you a lot of time.
And finally, try not to fiddle.
Don't be that guy going up and down in the
inbox just all day long sitting there thinking
about where you put stuff.
Try to minimize any kind of activity that
does not directly support creating and managing
actions.
If you're not actually getting that stuff
done, you're not really doing work.
You're just playing with email.
Have you guys ever seen the movie Metropolis,
the one from the 20s?
There's this awesome scene at Metropolis where
this--this ex-German expressionist worker
man is hooked up to the--the impossible to
keep up with machine and he has to keep turning
the arms on his clock and is completely assonates,
its hilarious, awesome scene.
I'm here to tell you, you know, if you don't
want to be doing this whole day long, being
hooked up in anything, right?
If you're just doing mete work inside of email,
you're not really getting stuff done.
And so I think, as much as possible, it's
a good idea to just kind of self [INDISTINCT]
and figure out what are the things I need
to do that are going to keep me moving this
stuff and let me create--create little email
corpses out of these as quickly as possible.
Try to stay with the program, get out of email
as often as you can and then just stay focused
on managing action.
And let's say periodically just give yourself
a little check.
And, you know, remember when you felt guilty
20 minutes ago when I asked you how your actions
track to your--things you say are important?
Try and do that once in a while and really
say to yourself "Am I putting my time and
my attention where it should be right now?
And is there a way that--that I can have this
email become less noisy for me and generate
more actions?"
And the irony, in my opinion is, that if you
do this well, it actually becomes a little
bit more like 1993 because you spend less
time, less [INDISTINCT] what a junkie don't
care about, and a lot more time doing stuff
that really matters to you.
And it's pretty good gig.
Thanks.
I deliberately tried to keep that short so
that I hope we can have a discussion and chat
and of question, and you can tell me where
I'm wrong.
We've got plenty of time.
I'm just going to stand here until you guys
ask the question--ask questions, so.
You can ask questions, you can tell me about
what it's like to work at the Google and have
a high volume of email, you could tell me,
yes sir?
&gt;&gt; So I really like the idea of only checking
your email ones every hour, but I think the
problem is that everyone expects me to be
checking it ones every 30 seconds.
And how do you--how do you get other people
aware that you want to follow a system different
from the system they expect you to do.
&gt;&gt; MANN: Yeah.
It's absolutely the number one--you're right
on.
That's the number one response anybody would
have to that seemingly crazy idea.
And the truth is that a lot of it's going
to depend on your teens--well, whoever it
is you work with a lot.
It's going to--it's going to have a lot to
do with how they think about the stuff and
how the person who's in a position to evaluate
you, things about that stuff.
But I think you might be surprised.
You guys work in cubes, right?
I mean, do you--did you have to renegotiate
everyday how loud to play the music and whether
you should need it to Molly?
Like you work it out, right?
Don't you kind of figure out, within your
own little culture, how that's going to work?
I think one thing you can do is to say to
each other--you see this happening now, everybody
talks about like, "Oh, no email Fridays,"
and stuff like that.
Well, I don't know about that, but I do think
that more and more people are--people are
having these conversations to at least say,
"Hey, you know, anybody else feeling like
our--our news groups have gotten kind of noisy?"
Anybody else kind of feel like, what if we
were to say we check email like one day a
week.
Lets say we check email when we get in, we
do a scrum or whatever and then we kind of
disappear for a couple of hours, who would
have a problem with that and what can we do
to work around that?
It's really up, you know, I--I don't have--there's
not one answer, but ultimately you're identifying
the more basic problem.
You would never call somebody at their house
at like 9 o'clock on a Sunday night.
Not when I was a kid.
It just wasn't done.
But now, because your email is out there,
people feel like they have unlimited access
to you.
So part of this, I really think, I think we're
starting to see the pendulum swing back as
we try and negotiate how much of ourselves
we want to be available to people all the
time, and how we maintain our insanity at
those times when we need to not be getting
new data, yes sir?
&gt;&gt; So addressing that the previous point if
you don't set them at expectation that you
will answer probably it's amazing how much
it affects how people try to use the email
to get in contact with you.
But my second question is using the inbox
as a to-do list; I have a tendency to do that
because I don't have good tools for doing--managing
a to-do list outside of email.
And what tools are out there that might actually
integrate the to-do list with the scheduling
of the time to do what's on the to-do list.
&gt;&gt; MANN: I think you're right on.
And, I mean, I think managing expectations,
I learn this a long time ago when I was first
a web designer.
Back before, we had interaction designer,
we just have web designers.
About 20,000 dollars less.
Really, 216 pillars then, it was a different
world.
I--I learned early on because I always--because
I'm a sad, pathetic person.
I always want to please people.
It's how I would way over deliver, way early
with clients.
And man, when I ever regret it.
I think you're absolutely right.
I think people will take you more seriously
if you do kind of establish, I mean, part
of it is, like I say, its team culture.
I mean, in the same way that people sometimes
say, "Oh, we got to get a Wiki to help communicate
better as a team."
Or like, "We need a new, you know our problem
is, we need a new CMS."
And you're like, "No, you need to figure out
how to talk to each other better."
Like [INDISTINCT] CMS, then you got two problems,
you know?
I think that's--I think that's a big part
of it.
To your point about where to put this stuff,
it's my feeling, and again, I'm just--I'm
going to come straight at Getting Things Done,
great book.
I think the idea of understanding that it's
all about managing action, it means you take
it seriously enough that you park actions
some place special.
One thing it's important to me, I think is
the idea that whatever I accept as an action,
whatever goes on to my list, that could be
a text file that could be--could be something
like "remember the milk", it could be to-do
list, there's a moderate electronic ways,
could be a [INDISTINCT] skin notebook.
But whatever it is you put on that list has
a certain kind of almost magic to it because
the act of committing that to your page is
your way of saying "this isn't just a good
idea, this is something that I'm going to
do".
And I think one of the distinctions about
understanding processing has everything to
do with task list as well.
The reason to-do don't work is because there's
no skin in the game.
To-do list are great.
Everybody in here can make a list right now,
a great to do list because really, most people
to-do list are about collection, capture,
about anxiety.
It's about what's--what's top of mind, right
now goes on the list.
Retirement, lumps and all those stuff goes
on the list, and now you've--you've made a
list.
Awesome.
You made a list.
And the list could include vacation to Paris,
pick up milk, buy diapers and its like, "Whoa,
the content types are crazy here.
These are all different sizes and shapes."
The only way to make a task list that really
means anything, is kind of try to make those
roughly the same shape, and to make them all
kind of, have a certain amount of decisiveness
about it.
So whatever you use--you know, I think for
most of you, a text file could be all you
need.
One thing about geeks, in my experience, is
that they don't have a lot of what David Allen
calls context or a lot of different sets of
tools and opportunities.
You know, at computers is pretty much it.
And so, for a lot of us that could be--that
could be a text file.
All I would say is whatever you choose, choose
the tool that stops just short of being fun
to use.
If it's too fun to use, you're going to fiddle
and you're going to be like the guy with the
clock, again.
Like, keep it--keep it to where you kind of
don't love using it.
Like--and--and where you don't become so concerned
with the taxonomy.
Every time you start thinking about taxonomy,
go do three tasks, that's all I'm saying.
I don't know if that answers your question.
It depends.
A lot of people--I think it will be great
thing for Google to make.
I could totally see this being in a creative
with a Google calendar at some point.
I know none of you are in a position to say.
You can't even tell me how your subversion
works, I know.
But I think in the future that would be a
great thing for Google to add.
Some kind of task management.
But, personally, I like something that I can
take on a plane.
You know what I mean?
I don't--the whole like wired thing is problematic
for me.
I'm sure you guys got a solution that's going
to get my personal information.
But I--I think having--I think there's nothing
wrong with having a sheet of paper.
I can't--you would not believe how many friends
of mine, especially friends I know who work
here, walk around with a pad of paper, they
write things down and then they cross it off.
You got ubiquitous capture, you know?
You know, the battery has run down.
I personally carry around a stack of index
cards to write things down.
Whatever works for you.
Yeah.
But having--having the tasks, the main thing
is that there's--it's important to be able
to capture them when they're on your mind
and I like to say the time that you remember
that you're out of toilet paper tends not
to be when you're at Safeway in the toilet
paper aisle.
And so, you need a capture device that's going
to be widely available, but then you don't
want to have recall at the point when you
can do something about it, so whatever system
does that for you--other, where's the mic,
yeah?
&gt;&gt; Hi, well, now that you just got done talking
about how great text files and pieces of paper
are, I wanted to ask you about your opinion
on the state of GTD apps, you mentioned omni
focus which I tried and I didn't really gotten
too involved with--I can't quite figure it
out, can you just tell me...
&gt;&gt; MANN: I'll, I'll put that as a bug.
&gt;&gt; Thanks, can you just tell me what you think
about them and what's their value?
&gt;&gt; MANN: Actually, that's a fantastic question,
he's asking about the state of GTD apps.
When I started 43 Folders in 2004, wow, apparently,
I'm 40.
There was not much in the way of GTD apps
especially for Mac users and I kind of at
the time was very like, there should be GTD
applications and now brother, are there ever
GTD applications, so many.
I think the failing of a lot, not the failing
but the challenge of GTD is it's if you--I'm
sorry I need to go on about this for those
of you who are already sick of GTD which I
can understand but part of the beauty of GTD
is that it's such a tool agnostic framework
and part of the challenge and the wonder of
GTD is that it's applicable in so many situations.
I think one problem with a lot of applications
is that they try too hard to be in all in
one GTD application and that it especially
tends to fall down in the review process which
is the most critical part of keeping GTD working
on an ongoing basis.
Just like your filters for email, it shouldn't
try to do the thinking for you, I would try
to avoid any GTD application that tries to
do too much thinking for you.
I think you want to be looking for an application--this
isn't--this isn't limited to just GTD, it's
true for any task management applications.
You want some--where it's easy to capture
in a way that's seamless and doesn't require
you to change modes.
That I would say that's important.
You need a way to kind of put it in the--the
most basic categories that allow you to contextually
have tasks when you can do something about
them and you need a way to afford reviews
and they can't do the review for you and I
think that's a problem with some of them.
I was talking with--at lunch today actually,
about one thing that's neat about Unix.
I mean as little as I really understand about
Unix, I do understand the idea of pipes and
I love the idea that tiny applications can
do things together and in some cases, I want
the really sharp paring knife.
I don't want the goofy Swiss Army knife that
came out of the bubble gum machine.
I want the one super freaking, hot, sharp,
paring knife to do this one thing and that's
why I think the beauty of this is you can
do capture on paper, right?
And you can do task tracking electronically
and you can do your reviews you know on a
white board.
You know whatever works for you in the way
that whatever compensatory muscles you need
to develop to keep your--your brain upright,
you can cobble together a system that will
do that for you.
&gt;&gt; Merlin, so if you come back from vacation
and you have a big pile...
&gt;&gt; How are you?
&gt;&gt; Or you know Monday and there's the medium
sized pile, what's your thinking about the
order in which you should process the mail,
should it be you know, chronological or should
it be alphabetical?
&gt;&gt; MANN: This is one of those VIE max kind
of things because there's--the connection
of wisdom is you cherry pick for the stuff
that's highest priority and there's nothing
I can say to you that will keep you from doing
that because that's how our brain works and
you guys are all smarter than me, I can't
talk you out to that but as much as possible,
I think I try to go latest to most recent
in order and I think once you made the--the
psychic leap from "I have to respond to all
of these" to "I have to process these," that
becomes less painful because once you become
a total ninja at processing and this is where
something like mud or something becomes you
know, if you can get key commands for doing
these kinds of tasks, it's a hugely helpful.
Mail acton for mail bot app great for stuff
like this.
That ability to just blaze through it really
quickly, you--you've taken down the ramp up
to that, right?
Because ordinarily you feel like, "Oh gosh,
it's Monday, I got to go run and put out my
fires," but you can do that but as long as
you don't do it to the exclusion of the other
stuff, how you do it?
&gt;&gt; So I think I try and get rid of the junk
first and then see what's left.
&gt;&gt; MANN: I think that's brilliant, I think
that...
&gt;&gt; Thanks.
&gt;&gt; MANN: I think that--no--but I think and
I'll tell you why.
Sure, it's funny but the--what we're doing
is a pattern and you say [INDISTINCT] junk
you know duh, that's a pattern that you can
extend a long way, that pattern of "Okay,
this is--I immediately see that this is stuff
I can get rid of," taking that and extending
that to okay and here's stuff that I don't
need to do now that I can do later or here's
things that I know I need to do this about
but you're making this very fast "in the moment"
decisions and once you get good at this stuff
indicating, you should--any of those five
steps should come to you very quickly because
you know where it goes.
Deleting these because you know it just goes
away.
If you can't make decisions as quickly as
you delete it's because you don't know where
stuff should go and that's the missing part
in your system maybe.
Yes, you sir?
&gt;&gt; So in related question.
If you're a very bad boy and you have a large
inbox dating back how many months, what would
you do if you find yourself in such a situation,
including what letters from friends and you
feel really guilty for not [INDISTINCT]?
&gt;&gt; MANN: So, hypothetically--hypothetically,
if you have been letting--I'm assuming this
is a live email compose check all the time.
Okay.
There is a difference between like versus
like having email checks accounts you only
check periodically, but if it's something
where that's--that intuition has been happening
overtime and it's been a piling up, piling
up, piling up.
I'll tell you the very first thing I would
do; I ask--I tell people to create something
that I call the email DMZ.
So the first thing you need to do is to stop
sucking.
Like before you get good, you have to stop
sucking.
So first of all, go make a folder called DMZ
and drag everyone of those emails into that
folder and then stop doing that.
That's my first thing.
Do you follow what I'm saying?
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; MANN: It's like--and so--but I see other
people go like, "Well--well, yeah, but I still
got all that email."
I'm like, "Yeah, but if you had done that
six months ago, you would have six months
less of stuff that had piled up."
So number one, clear out your inbox.
Give yourself a fresh start and put that into
a folder.
You still have to go through all that email
which you can do in dashes.
That's the first thing that I would do.
You could--there's a lot--been a lot of talk
lately about email bankruptcy and the idea
of basically bccing everybody you know and
saying, "That's it new dealer, I'm done."
If it's really important call me.
So you suck it.
I'm out of here.
I--that's hard to do and I know a company
that will probably really hard to do.
But I think--no, seriously, I think--I think
it helps to give yours--I mean, how can I
put this?
You--if it was easy for you to answer those,
you already would have answered them.
If that was something that you could do and
in your head, if that's something you can
do in five minutes, you already would have
done it.
You got to be honest with yourself.
You don't get an empty inbox by living a lie.
You got to start by being really honest with
yourself.
So, if you know you'll never going to respond
to some email, even if it's somebody that
you love, love, love, delete it.
What are you going to do instead?
Keep it for six months and then delete it?
Oh, well that's awesome, that--they probably
feel great, you know?
If you're going to answer, answer it now.
I mean, aren't we in a get all like Kung Fu
on?
You [INDISTINCT] I mean?
Like that's what you got to do.
And, I mean, what you could do, I mean there's
all kinds--this is how pathetic I am.
There's all of little tricks you could do.
Like you could go in there and--and take it
from a slightly different point of view and
say, "Of the people in here, all those friends
and all those babies that have been born and
all those birthdays that went by, what would
make me feel great?
Which one of these people would I actually
really like to connect with?"
So, instead of thinking of it as this deficit
that makes you feel terrible, try to think
of it as like "if I could reach out to one
person and feel really energized by writing
to them" start there.
Yes, hey?
&gt;&gt; So one of the issues that many of us here
have is, it seems like your system would work
really well on a personal account, but with
a work account, frequently, somebody will
email your team.
And now there are, you know, maybe 20 people
that could respond to this issue, so you might
look at the email and you might say, "Well,
I could respond or I could wait for one of
the other 20 people to respond."
&gt;&gt; MANN: Right.
&gt;&gt; And so you ignore it for an hour or two,
and then you come back to it later and you
say, "Oh, did anyone respond yet?
Maybe.
Do I want to respond now?"
So do you have any suggestions for playing
this little waiting game with your teammates?
&gt;&gt; MANN: Well, yeah.
Two things--well, first of all it's a trick
question because, you know, it's--that a--if
that's--if the practice of your group is to
have stuff generically go out to 20 people
and hope someone takes care of it.
There's--there's a part of that workflow that
makes me think that could probably tuned a
little bit.
I would suggest something like bug tracking
or something like that.
But, no--but seriously, I mean, you're right.
I mean--but--how can I put this?
I mean, my friend [INDISTINCT] talks about
this all the time.
You know, people come in, they come to you,
they go, "Oh, we got to get a CMS, we've got
to get to this, we've got to get to that.
Here's this thing I read about in the in flight
magazine, it's going to make our company really
great."
And, you know, the trouble is, the technology
is going to do your bidding, but it's not
going to fix communication problems or broken
practices.
That said, there are ways that you could probably
do it, is there to tend to be one or two people
that actually do the work or does it get widely
distributed?
That went out to 20 people...
&gt;&gt; [INDISTINCT] whoever can answer the question
the answer is sometimes.
&gt;&gt; MANN: Right.
And so you see if they--when they respond
to that, that could cc everybody in the group
and you would know that they got answered.
Huh, so the whole time you--you're just kind
of sitting there, going like--who's it going
to be?
Wow, that's wow, um, it's a good question
I mean I--that's sound like a kind of a practice
that you guys could talk--seems like you could
talk a little bit to--to clean that up a little
bit but I don't--I mean I--I would have to
think something like bug tracking would be
better for something like that but--but it--it
gives me chance to say one thing, there are
some problems that can't be fixed by email
and there are some problems where email--how
can I put this?
Email--you know, is just the canary in the
coal mine.
You feel the pain in that place, um, in the
inbox--by the way, you can read more about
the stuff at InboxZero.com it redirects to
a 43 Folders series that contains a bunch
of this crap.
But what you do if somebody who keeps sending
you junk, for example?
This is--I mean in some ways, this is somewhat
related to that, like you get the--the aunt
that keep sending you the--the urban myths
and, uh, $200 cookie and all that stuff and
you just keep sending them the snoop's links
but they keep sending you--you know, the stuff.
There's some stuff where you've really just
got--you either got prank mail them, or you
got to talk to them.
So, I don't know--I mean I guess I feel like
there's all kinds of problems that--that you
could at least start to say, "Hey, does anybody
else that see that said something that we
could work on?"
I don't know, what--what do you guys think?
Is this--is that--what he's describing is
a big Google wide problem?
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, you know, it's like the FBI too.
People are shooting this entire thing, this
is all being recorded.
Yeah, seriously but that is--is that a widespread
problem?
Not knowing who's going to handle something
sent to distribution.
Who's got the best solution for it here?
Yeah?
&gt;&gt; I still just do like recommending it just
[INDISTINCT] with less response, just do it
and if not, really able to feel responsible
and then when you get around to it, when you
have time to actually send the folder, maybe
somebody has already responded and you have
nothing to do it or memorizes your number.
&gt;&gt; Does it--does getting good about responding
to that harm you in the long run?
Do you become to go-to person and is that
a good thing or a bad thing?
&gt;&gt; Well, the problem with responding like
immediately, it seems that it's--it's--then
the person who send the email gets pretty
responses all simultaneously and...
&gt;&gt; Right.
&gt;&gt; So this all will be sent to you.
So, there is some advantage to waiting just...
&gt;&gt; See what happens.
&gt;&gt; To--to prevent every one from responding
simultaneously?
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; When I--when I had worked [INDISTINCT]
four or five days and everyday it's missing
a one.
I do not answer but we just direct other things
to answer and they didn't have time to be
able to answer or have it all and so we don't--you're
not doing all the work by yourself.
What the others do because they made it to
the wrong guy, they would tell you and you
have to change and so--so everyone gets to
know that you [INDISTINCT]
&gt;&gt; So, it becomes a little bit like reverse
office hours like there's--like you a time
when you're not responding?
&gt;&gt; Some of it [INDISTINCT] usually it goes
to manager to answer these things and, uh,
if--at Google point, there is no manager at
fault because how can do that, it's 52,000
[INDISTINCT] yeah that it would seems you
have to do it and on all they did all to there
best as well to manage.
&gt;&gt; Oh, did, I'm--I'm interested hearing more
about that--that's I think--that's--I think
that's--that's a very--that's a tough question.
And--and I'm just curious though I--I guess
sometimes you guys try to--try to squash the
myth but so show--show of hands, emails that
come from a Google address that you receive
everyday in your estimation, 100?
&gt;&gt; Close--closer than that.
&gt;&gt; Well, like you come in you turn on your
computer, if you had nothing in place--how
many Google emails would be in your inbox?
Can somebody toss out--how much, 200?
&gt;&gt; Five hundred.
&gt;&gt; Five hundred.
Can anybody more than 500?
So, if this [INDISTINCT] is more than 500--some
of you are getting more than 500 emails?
&gt;&gt; Emails and conversation.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, just write anonymous.
&gt;&gt; Whatever helps, uh, if I, man I--I would
really want to ask what I get out if people
get 600 emails a day and how much, um, how
many of them are actionable?
What percentage of your emails are actionable--require
you to do something other than read them and
file them?
&gt;&gt; Two and to one percent.
&gt;&gt; Just 5%.
&gt;&gt; One to 5%--2%?
Hey, how's it going?
Um, wow, that's--that's extraordinary if I
was--if I was Mr. Google, I would--I would
want to ask a lot of questions, that's extraordinary.
Well, more question--yeah?
&gt;&gt; Um, actually just an announcement but not
to finish the questions many of you know this
but I wanted to mention that we do bring the
David Allen Company here to do "Getting Things
Done" courses on a regular basis so if any
of you have not taken it or you studied GTD
before and you want a refresher, you're absolutely
welcome to enroll a class.
In fact, we have them going this Thursday
and Friday, I know it's last minute but we
do have some seats--it's a one day class,
we offer it across two half days.
So, two morning sessions or two afternoon,
you can enroll by going to go/gtdw, so, just
wanted to mention that.
&gt;&gt; That's awesome, yeah, that's great.
I knew Ev took his--took the barter team to
that a while back, uh, I think it's--I mean
not, this is--I guess this is a plug so I'll
call it a plug.
That's a heck of a seminar.
It's funny one thing people always ask is
how do you--how do you GTD on teens.
The truth is it can be pretty hard to like
make anybody do anything like that but it's
kind of this object oriented, productivity
approach where if everybody has responsible--there
are little black boxes responsible about input
and output--it kind of makes things little
healthier, that's cool if you do that.
We've probably got time for one more question?
Anybody else and I'll hang around after if
anybody wants to say yeah or whatever but--one
more question?
Come on, make me feel good, ask a question--yeah.
&gt;&gt; All right, see, I was [INDISTINCT] to make
a day here if I didn't ask it.
So, [INDISTINCT] maybe I am but my problem
with my mailbox is just--to like just bother
checking every single email like literally
clicking the box is more pain than I can bear
and I think the problem we have at Google
is that you're on--we don't have like--we
have an internal RssReader but a lot of stuff
probably could be on blogs like we're just
used to doing it on mailing list since your
mailing list are kind of notice knowledge
archive, firehost type thing?
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; So, do you have any techniques for dealing
with like the knowledge firehost that...
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; ...you know, proxies for?
&gt;&gt; That's--that's really interesting that
you--you--as you were speaking I started to
think there was, uh, there was an article
I read in kind of early 90's that was comparing--talking
about Macs and Windows, I guess it was mid
90's.
Comparing Macs and Windows and saying that
Windows was very Protestant and Mac was very
Catholic, it seems like you need almost like
an information priest, you need--it sounds
like for--some of these problems you need
sectional representatives who are helping
to digest this and then share the really relevant
parts of it.
If there are stuff where not everybody needs
to know about it--yeah, that's a firehost,
that's crazy and again I mean blaming email
is--you know, that's just kind of blaming
the messenger, it sounds like that's one thing
that might be helpful but go ahead...
&gt;&gt; I just wanted to say--sometimes I've thought
that Google relies on randomness to make sure
the information gets to the right person.
It's kind of like redundant random graph and
like it might or might not flow--you hope
for the best.
&gt;&gt; Really?
So, like they just--they just throw it all
out there and it kind of hope it sticks.
&gt;&gt; Well, like your talking to somebody at
lunch and they're like, "Oh, you're doing
that project, have you heard the person in
New York who's doing a very similar project?''
No--no, I haven't.
&gt;&gt; Well, Google, home of the random information
spotter.
Hey, so I have been Merlin and this has been
Inbox Zero and thank you very much to--to
Dick in particular for having me in today.
Thanks to everybody, you all hung out--thank
you.